# Variables and Mutability

- By default variables are immutable, however there is an option to make them 
  mutable by by adding `mut` in front of the variable name.

- In Rust, the compiler guarantees that when you state that a value won’t change,
  it really won’t change. 

- ##### Tradeoffs : There are multiple trade-offs to consider in addition to the 
  prevention of bugs. For example, in cases where you’re using large data structures, 
  mutating an instance in place may be faster than copying and returning newly allocated 
  instances. With smaller data structures, creating new instances and writing in a more 
  functional programming style may be easier to think through, so lower performance might 
  be a worthwhile penalty for gaining that clarity.

### Differences Between Variables and Constants

- You aren’t allowed to use mut with constants. Constants aren’t just immutable
  by default—they’re always immutable.

- You declare constants using the const keyword instead of the let keyword, and
  the type of the value must be annotated(means declare the type e.g foo:i32)

- Constants can be declared in any scope, including the global scope, which makes 
  them useful for values that many parts of code need to know about. 

- The last difference is that constants may be set only to a constant expression, 
  not the result of a function call or any other value that could only be computed at runtime.

- Naming hardcoded values used throughout your program as constants is useful in 
conveying the meaning of that value to future maintainers of the code. 
It also helps to have only one place in your code you would need to change if 
the hardcoded value needed to be updated in the future.

### Shadowing

- You can declare a new variable with the same name as a previous variable, and 
the new variable shadows the previous variable. Rustaceans say that the first variable is shadowed 
by the second, which means that the second variable’s value is what appears when 
the variable is used.

```sh
fn main() {
    let x = 5;

    let x = x + 1;

    let x = x * 2;

    println!("The value of x is: {}", x);
}
```

###### Differnce between mut and shadowing

- Shadowing is different from marking a variable as mut, because we’ll get a 
compile-time error if we accidentally try to reassign to this variable without using 
the let keyword. By using let, we can perform a few transformations on a value 
but have the variable be immutable after those transformations have been completed.

- The other difference between mut and shadowing is that because we’re effectively 
creating a new variable when we use the let keyword again, we can change the type 
of the value but reuse the same name. 

```sh
 let spaces = "   ";
 let spaces = spaces.len();
```










