# Data Types

- Keep in mind that Rust is a statically typed language, which means that it must
know the types of all variables at compile time. The compiler can usually infer
what type we want to use based on the value and how we use it.

- There are two data type subsets: scalar and compound.

## Scalar Types

### Integer Types

- Signed integer types start with i, unsigned integers start with u

|Length | Signed	|Unsigned|
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
|8-bit	|i8	|u8|
|16-bit	|i16	|u16|
|32-bit	|i32	|u32|
|64-bit	|i64	|u64|
|128-bit	|i128	|u128|
|arch	|isize	|usize|

- Signed numbers are stored using two’s complement representation.Each signed variant can store numbers from -(2^(n - 1)) to 2^(n - 1) - 1 inclusive, where n is the number of bits that variant uses.

- Additionally, the isize and usize types depend on the kind of computer your program is running on

- There are following types of integer literals in Rust

|Number literals|	Example|
| ------ | ------ |
|Decimal	|98_222|
|Hex	|0xff|
|Octal	|0o77|
|Binary	|0b1111_0000|
|Byte (u8 only)|	b'A'|


- If you’re unsure, Rust’s defaults are generally good choices, and integer types default to i32: this type is generally the fastest, even on 64-bit systems.

##### Integer Overflow

- When you’re compiling in debug mode, Rust includes checks for integer overflow that cause your program to panic at runtime if this behavior occurs.
- When you’re compiling in release mode with the `--release` flag, Rust does not include checks for integer overflow that cause panics. Instead, if overflow occurs, Rust performs two’s complement wrapping

#### Floating-Point Types

-  The default type is f64 because on modern CPUs it’s roughly the same speed as f32 but is capable of more precision.

### The Boolean Type

### The Character Type

- `char` literals are specified with single quotes, as opposed to string literals, which use double quotes.
- Rust’s char type is four bytes in size and represents a Unicode Scalar Value,


## Compound Types

Compound types can group multiple values into one type. Rust has two primitive compound types: tuples and arrays.

### The Tuple Type

- Tuples have a fixed length: once declared, they cannot grow or shrink in size.
- Each position in the tuple has a type, and the types of the different values in the tuple don’t have to be the same. 
```sh
fn main() {
    let tup: (i32, f64, u8) = (500, 6.4, 1);
}
```

##### Accessing a Tuple

- To get the individual values out of a tuple, we can use pattern matching to destructure a tuple value, like this:
```sh
fn main() {
    let tup = (500, 6.4, 1);

    let (x, y, z) = tup;

    println!("The value of y is: {}", y);
}
```
This is called destructuring

- In addition to destructuring through pattern matching, we can access a tuple element directly by using a period (.) followed by the index of the value we want to access

### The Array Type

- Unlike a tuple, every element of an array must have the same type.

```sh 
fn main() {
    let a = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    let b: [i32; 5] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    let c = [3; 5]; --> [3,3,3,3,]
}
```

- Arrays are useful when you want your data allocated on the stack rather than the heap or when you want to ensure you always have a fixed number of elements.
-  If you’re unsure whether to use an array or a vector, you should probably use a vector. An array isn’t as flexible as the vector type A vector is a similar collection type provided by the standard library that is allowed to grow or shrink in size.

##### Invalid Array Element Access

What happens if you try to access an element of an array that is past the end of the array? 

The compilation doesn’t produce any errors, but the program results in a runtime error and doesn’t exit successfully. When you attempt to access an element using indexing, Rust will check that the index you’ve specified is less than the array length. If the index is greater than or equal to the array length, Rust will panic.

