# References and Borrowing

```sh
fn main() {
    let s1 = String::from("hello");

    let (s2, len) = calculate_length(s1);

    println!("The length of '{}' is {}.", s2, len);
}

fn calculate_length(s: String) -> (String, usize) {
    let length = s.len(); // len() returns the length of a String

    (s, length)
}
```
- The issue with the tuple code in Above Listing is that we have to return the String to the calling function so we can still use the String after the call to calculate_length, because the String was moved into calculate_length.

```sh
fn main() {
    let s1 = String::from("hello");

    let len = calculate_length(&s1);

    println!("The length of '{}' is {}.", s1, len);
}

fn calculate_length(s: &String) -> usize { // s is a reference to a String
    s.len()
} // Here, s goes out of scope. But because it does not have ownership of what
  // it refers to, nothing happens.

```
- First, notice that all the tuple code in the variable declaration and the function return value is gone. Second, note that we pass &s1 into calculate_length and, in its definition, we take &String rather than String.
- These ampersands are references, and they allow you to refer to some value without taking ownership of it.
- The &s1 syntax lets us create a reference that refers to the value of s1 but does not own it. Because it does not own it, the value it points to will not be dropped when the reference goes out of scope.
- Likewise, the signature of the function uses & to indicate that the type of the parameter s is a reference.
- We call having references as function parameters borrowing. 
- Just as variables are immutable by default, so are references. We’re not allowed to modify something we have a reference to.

## Mutable References

```sh
fn main() {
    let mut s = String::from("hello");

    change(&mut s);
}

fn change(some_string: &mut String) {
    some_string.push_str(", world");
}
```
- But mutable references have one big restriction: you can have only one mutable reference to a particular piece of data in a particular scope.

- The benefit of having this restriction is that Rust can prevent data races at compile time. A data race is similar to a race condition and happens when these three behaviors occur:

    * Two or more pointers access the same data at the same time.
    * At least one of the pointers is being used to write to the data.
    * There’s no mechanism being used to synchronize access to the data.
- Data races cause undefined behavior and can be difficult to diagnose and fix when you’re trying to track them down at runtime; Rust prevents this problem from happening because it won’t even compile code with data races!

As always, we can use curly brackets to create a new scope, allowing for multiple mutable references, just not simultaneous ones:

```sh
fn main() {
    let mut s = String::from("hello");

    {
        let r1 = &mut s;
    } // r1 goes out of scope here, so we can make a new reference with no problems.

    let r2 = &mut s;
}
```

- We also cannot have a mutable reference while we have an immutable one. Users of an immutable reference don’t expect the values to suddenly change out from under them!

```sh
fn main() {
    let mut s = String::from("hello");

    let r1 = &s; // no problem
    let r2 = &s; // no problem
    println!("{} and {}", r1, r2);
    // r1 and r2 are no longer used after this point

    let r3 = &mut s; // no problem
    println!("{}", r3);
}
```
- The scopes of the immutable references r1 and r2 end after the println! where they are last used, which is before the mutable reference r3 is created. These scopes don’t overlap, so this code is allowed.

## Dangling References

 In Rust, by contrast, the compiler guarantees that references will never be dangling references: if you have a reference to some data, the compiler will ensure that the data will not go out of scope before the reference to the data does.

 ```sh
 fn main() {
    let reference_to_nothing = dangle();
}

fn dangle() -> &String { // dangle returns a reference to a String

    let s = String::from("hello"); // s is a new String

    &s // we return a reference to the String, s
} // Here, s goes out of scope, and is dropped. Its memory goes away.
  // Danger!

```
- The above code will result in an error stating that :
    `this function's return type contains a borrowed value, but there is no value for it to be borrowed from.`

- Because s is created inside dangle, when the code of dangle is finished, s will be deallocated. But we tried to return a reference to it. That means this reference would be pointing to an invalid String.
- The solution here is to return the String directly:

```sh
fn main() {
    let string = no_dangle();
}

fn no_dangle() -> String {
    let s = String::from("hello");

    s
}
```

## The Rules of References

- Let’s recap what we’ve discussed about references:

* At any given time, you can have either one mutable reference or any number of immutable references.
* References must always be valid.

