# Method Syntax

- Methods are different from functions in that they’re defined within the context of a struct (or an enum or a trait object), and their first parameter is always   `self`, which represents the instance of the struct the method is being called on.

```sh
#[derive(Debug)]
struct Rectangle {
    width: u32,
    height: u32,
}

impl Rectangle {
    fn area(&self) -> u32 {
        self.width * self.height
    }
}

fn main() {
    let rect1 = Rectangle {
        width: 30,
        height: 50,
    };

    println!(
        "The area of the rectangle is {} square pixels.",
        rect1.area()
    );
}
```

- In the signature for `area`, we use `&self` instead of `rectangle: &Rectangle` because Rust knows the type of `self` is `Rectangle` due to this method’s being inside the `impl Rectangle` context.

- Note that we still need to use the `&` before `self`, just as we did in `&Rectangle`. Methods can take ownership of `self`, borrow `self` immutably as we’ve done here, or borrow `self` mutably, just as they can any other parameter.

- We don’t want to take ownership, and we just want to read the data in the `struct`, not write to it.

-  If we wanted to change the instance that we’ve called the method on as part of what the method does, we’d use `&mut self` as the first parameter.

-  Having a method that takes ownership of the instance by using just `self` as the first parameter is rare; this technique is usually used when the method transforms `self` into something else and you want to prevent the caller from using the original instance after the transformation.

- The main benefit of using methods instead of functions, in addition to using method syntax and not having to repeat the type of `self` in every method’s signature, is for organization.

- We’ve put all the things we can do with an instance of a type in one `impl` block rather than making future users of our code search for capabilities of `Rectangle` in various places in the library we provide.

When you call a method with `object.something()`, Rust automatically adds in `&`, `&mut`, or `*` so object matches the signature of the method. In other words, the following are the same:

```sh
#![allow(unused_variables)]
fn main() {
#[derive(Debug,Copy,Clone)]
struct Point {
    x: f64,
    y: f64,
}

impl Point {
   fn distance(&self, other: &Point) -> f64 {
       let x_squared = f64::powi(other.x - self.x, 2);
       let y_squared = f64::powi(other.y - self.y, 2);

       f64::sqrt(x_squared + y_squared)
   }
}
let p1 = Point { x: 0.0, y: 0.0 };
let p2 = Point { x: 5.0, y: 6.5 };

p1.distance(&p2);       // This is same as the next statement
(&p1).distance(&p2);
```
- The first one looks much cleaner. This automatic referencing behavior works because methods have a clear receiver—the type of `self`. Given the receiver and name of a method, Rust can figure out definitively whether the method is reading (`&self`), mutating (`&mut self`), or consuming (`self`).

## Methods with More Parameters

```sh
impl Rectangle {
    fn area(&self) -> u32 {
        self.width * self.height
    }

    fn can_hold(&self, other: &Rectangle) -> bool {
        self.width > other.width && self.height > other.height
    }
}
```

## Associated Functions

- Another useful feature of `impl` blocks is that we’re allowed to define functions within `impl` blocks that don’t take `self` as a parameter.

- They’re still functions, not methods, because they don’t have an instance of the struct to work with. One example of this is `String::from` which one might have encountered in the book previously.

- Associated functions are often used for constructors that will return a new instance of the `struct`. For example, we could provide an associated function that would have one dimension parameter and use that as both `width` and `height`, thus making it easier to create a `square Rectangle` rather than having to specify the same value twice:

```sh
impl Rectangle {
    fn square(size: u32) -> Rectangle {
        Rectangle {
            width: size,
            height: size,
        }
    }
}
```
- To call this associated function, we use the `::` syntax with the `struct` name; `let sq = Rectangle::square(3);`

- The `::` syntax is used for both associated functions and namespaces created by modules.

## Summary

Structs let you create custom types that are meaningful for your domain. By using structs, you can keep associated pieces of data connected to each other and name each piece to make your code clear. Methods let you specify the behavior that instances of your structs have, and associated functions let you namespace functionality that is particular to your struct without having an instance available.