# The match Control Flow Operator

Rust has an extremely powerful control flow operator called `match` that allows you to compare a value against a series of patterns and then execute code based on which pattern matches.

- In the same way, values go through each pattern in a `match`, and at the first pattern the value “fits,” the value falls into the associated code block to be used during execution.

- We can write a function that can take an unknown United States coin and, in a similar way as the counting machine, determine which coin it is and return its value in cents

```
enum Coin {
    Penny,
    Nickel,
    Dime,
    Quarter,
}

fn value_in_cents(coin: Coin) -> u8 {
    match coin {
        Coin::Penny => {
            println!("Lucky penny!");
            1
        }
        Coin::Nickel => 5,
        Coin::Dime => 10,
        Coin::Quarter => 25,
    }
}

fn main() {}
}
```

- An arm has two parts: a pattern and some code. The first arm here has a pattern that is the value `Coin::Penny` and then the `=>` operator that separates the pattern and the code to run. The code in this case is just the value `1`. Each arm is separated from the next with a comma.

## Patterns that Bind to Values


Another useful feature of match arms is that they can bind to the parts of the values that match the pattern. This is how we can extract values out of enum variants.

```
#[derive(Debug)]
enum UsState {
    Alabama,
    Alaska,
    // --snip--
}

enum Coin {
    Penny,
    Nickel,
    Dime,
    Quarter(UsState),
}

fn value_in_cents(coin: Coin) -> u8 {
    match coin {
        Coin::Penny => 1,
        Coin::Nickel => 5,
        Coin::Dime => 10,
        Coin::Quarter(state) => {
            println!("State quarter from {:?}!", state);
            25
        }
    }
}

fn main() {
    value_in_cents(Coin::Quarter(UsState::Alaska));
}
```

- If we were to call `value_in_cents(Coin::Quarter(UsState::Alaska))`, coin would be `Coin::Quarter(UsState::Alaska)`. When we compare that value with each of the match arms, none of them match until we reach `Coin::Quarter(state)`. At that point, the binding for state will be the value `UsState::Alaska`. We can then use that binding in the `println!` expression, thus getting the inner state value out of the Coin enum variant for Quarter.


## Matching with Option<T> (null in other languages)

Let’s say we want to write a function that takes an `Option<i32>` and, if there’s a value inside, adds `1` to that value. If there isn’t a value inside, the function should return the `None` value and not attempt to perform any operations.

```
fn main() {
    fn plus_one(x: Option<i32>) -> Option<i32> {
        match x {
            None => None,
            Some(i) => Some(i + 1),
        }
    }

    let five = Some(5);
    let six = plus_one(five);
    let none = plus_one(None);
}
```

## Matches Are Exhaustive

There’s one other aspect of `match` we need to discuss. Consider this version of our plus_one function that has a bug and won’t compile:

```
fn main() {
    fn plus_one(x: Option<i32>) -> Option<i32> {
        match x {
            Some(i) => Some(i + 1),
        }
    }

    let five = Some(5);
    let six = plus_one(five);
    let none = plus_one(None);
}
```
We didn’t handle the `None` case, so this code will cause a bug. Luckily, it’s a bug Rust knows how to catch. 


## The _ Placeholder

Rust also has a pattern we can use when we don’t want to list all possible values. For example, a `u8` can have valid values of 0 through 255. If we only care about the values 1, 3, 5, and 7, we don’t want to have to list out 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 9 all the way up to 255. Fortunately, we don’t have to: we can use the special pattern `_` instead:

```
fn main() {
    let some_u8_value = 0u8;
    match some_u8_value {
        1 => println!("one"),
        3 => println!("three"),
        5 => println!("five"),
        7 => println!("seven"),
        _ => (),
    }
}
```
- The _ pattern will match any value. By putting it after our other arms, the `_` will match all the possible cases that aren’t specified before it. The `()` is just the unit value, so nothing will happen in the `_` case. As a result, we can say that we want to do nothing for all the possible values that we don’t list before the `_` placeholder.


- However, the `match` expression can be a bit wordy in a situation in which we care about only one of the cases. For this situation, Rust provides `if let`.