# Paths for Referring to an Item in the Module Tree


- A path can take two forms:

   * An absolute path starts from a crate root by using a crate name or a literal crate.
   * A relative path starts from the current module and uses self, super, or an identifier in the current module.

- Both absolute and relative paths are followed by one or more identifiers separated by double colons (::).

In the following module tree :

```sh
crate
 └── front_of_house
     ├── hosting
     │   ├── add_to_waitlist
     │   └── seat_at_table
     └── serving
         ├── take_order
         ├── serve_order
         └── take_payment
```

```sh
mod front_of_house {
    mod hosting {
        fn add_to_waitlist() {}
    }
}

pub fn eat_at_restaurant() {
    // Absolute path
    crate::front_of_house::hosting::add_to_waitlist();

    // Relative path
    front_of_house::hosting::add_to_waitlist();
}
```

- The `add_to_waitlist` function is defined in the same crate as `eat_at_restaurant`, which means we can use the `crate` keyword to start an absolute path.

- Choosing whether to use a relative or absolute path is a decision you’ll make based on your project. 

-  For example, if we move the `front_of_house module` and the `eat_at_restaurant` function into a module named `customer_experience`, we’d need to update the absolute path to `add_to_waitlist`, but the relative path would still be valid.

- However, if we moved the `eat_at_restaurant` function separately into a module named `dining`, the absolute path to the `add_to_waitlist` call would stay the same, but the relative path would need to be updated.

- Modules aren’t useful only for organizing your code. They also define Rust’s privacy boundary: the line that encapsulates the implementation details external code isn’t allowed to know about, call, or rely on. So, if you want to make an item like a function or struct private, you put it in a module.

- The way privacy works in Rust is that all items (functions, methods, structs, enums, modules, and constants) are private by default.

-  Items in a parent module can’t use the private items inside child modules, but items in child modules can use the items in their ancestor modules.

## Exposing Paths with the pub Keyword

```sh
mod front_of_house {
    pub mod hosting {
        fn add_to_waitlist() {}
    }
}

pub fn eat_at_restaurant() {
    // Absolute path
    crate::front_of_house::hosting::add_to_waitlist();

    // Relative path
    front_of_house::hosting::add_to_waitlist();
}

```

- The above code will still give error, why ? Adding the pub keyword in front of mod hosting makes the module public.

- But the contents of hosting are still private; making the module public doesn’t make its contents public. The pub keyword on a module only lets code in its ancestor modules refer to it.

- To solve this issue we need to `make add_to_waitlist` public by adding `pub` in front of it.


# Starting Relative Paths with super

We can also construct relative paths that begin in the parent module by using super at the start of the path. This is like starting a filesystem path with the .. syntax. 

But Why ??

- Consider the code in Listing 7-8 that models the situation in which a chef fixes an incorrect order and personally brings it out to the customer. The function `fix_incorrect_order` calls the function `serve_order` by specifying the path to serve_order starting with super:

Filename: src/lib.rs

```sh
fn serve_order() {}

mod back_of_house {
    fn fix_incorrect_order() {
        cook_order();
        super::serve_order();
    }

    fn cook_order() {}
}
```
Listing 7-8: Calling a function using a relative path starting with super

- The `fix_incorrect_order` function is in the `back_of_house` module, so we can use `super` to go to the parent module of `back_of_house`, which in this case is `crate`, the root. From there, we look for `serve_order` and find it. Success! We think the `back_of_house module` and the `serve_order` function are likely to stay in the same relationship to each other and get moved together should we decide to reorganize the crate’s module tree. Therefore, we used `super` so we’ll have fewer places to update code in the future if this code gets moved to a different module.

## Making Structs and Enums Public

- We can also use pub to designate structs and enums as public, but there are a few extra details. If we use pub before a struct definition, we make the struct public, but the struct’s fields will still be private.

- We can make each field public or not on a case-by-case basis.

```sh
#![allow(unused)]
fn main() {
mod back_of_house {
    pub struct Breakfast {
        pub toast: String,
        seasonal_fruit: String,
    }

    impl Breakfast {
        pub fn summer(toast: &str) -> Breakfast {
            Breakfast {
                toast: String::from(toast),
                seasonal_fruit: String::from("peaches"),
            }
        }
    }
}

pub fn eat_at_restaurant() {
    // Order a breakfast in the summer with Rye toast
    let mut meal = back_of_house::Breakfast::summer("Rye");
    // Change our mind about what bread we'd like
    meal.toast = String::from("Wheat");
    println!("I'd like {} toast please", meal.toast);

    // The next line won't compile if we uncomment it; we're not allowed
    // to see or modify the seasonal fruit that comes with the meal
    // meal.seasonal_fruit = String::from("blueberries");
}
}
```
- Also, note that because `back_of_house::Breakfast` has a private field, the struct needs to provide a public associated function that constructs an instance of `Breakfast` (we’ve named it `summer` here).

- If `Breakfast` didn’t have such a function, we couldn’t create an instance of `Breakfast` in `eat_at_restaurant` because we couldn’t set the value of the private `seasonal_fruit` field in `eat_at_restaurant`.

- In contrast, if we make an `enum` public, all of its variants are then public. We only need the `pub` before the `enum` keyword, 