# Vectors 

- `Vec<T>`, also known as a *vector*. Vectors allow you to store more than one value in a single data structure that puts all the values next to each other in memory.

-  Vectors can only store values of the same type. 

- To create a new, empty vector, we can call the `Vec::new` function

```sh 
let v: Vec<i32> = Vec::new();
```

- The `Vec<T>` type provided by the standard library can hold any type, and when a specific vector holds a specific type, the type is specified within angle brackets.

- In more realistic code, Rust can often infer the type of value you want to store once you insert values, so you rarely need to do this type annotation. It’s more common to create a `Vec<T>` that has initial values, and Rust provides the `vec!` macro for convenience.

```sh
fn main() {
    let v = vec![1, 2, 3];
}
```

- To Update a vector we can use `push` method :

```sh
fn main() {
    let mut v = Vec::new();

    v.push(5);
    v.push(6);
    v.push(7);
    v.push(8);
}
```

- As with any variable, if we want to be able to change its value, we need to make it mutable using the `mut` keyword


## Dropping a Vector Drops Its Elements

Like any other struct, a vector is freed when it goes out of scope,

```sh
fn main() {
    {
        let v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4];

        // do stuff with v
    } // <- v goes out of scope and is freed here
}
```

## Reading Elements of Vectors

 There are two ways to reference a value stored in a vector. 
 1. Indexing the vector
 2. `get` method

 ```sh
 fn main() {
    let v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    let third: &i32 = &v[2];
    println!("The third element is {}", third);

    match v.get(2) {
        Some(third) => println!("The third element is {}", third),
        None => println!("There is no third element."),
    }
}
```

- Rust has two ways to reference an element so you can choose how the program behaves when you try to use an index value that the vector doesn’t have an element for. 

```sh
fn main() {
    let v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    let does_not_exist = &v[100];
    let does_not_exist = v.get(100);
}
```

- When we run this code, the first `[]` method will cause the program to panic because it references a nonexistent element. This method is best used when you want your program to crash if there’s an attempt to access an element past the end of the vector.

- When the get method is passed an index that is outside the vector, it returns None without panicking. You would use this method if accessing an element beyond the range of the vector happens occasionally under normal circumstances. Your code will then have logic to handle having either `Some(&element)` or `None`

- **NOTE** : Recall the rule that states you can’t have mutable and immutable references in the same scope. 

```sh
fn main() {
    let mut v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    let first = &v[0];

    v.push(6);

    println!("The first element is: {}", first);
}
```


The code in Listing above might look like it should work: why should a reference to the first element care about what changes at the end of the vector? This error is due to the way vectors work: **adding a new element onto the end of the vector might require allocating new memory and copying the old elements to the new space, if there isn’t enough room to put all the elements next to each other where the vector currently is. In that case, the reference to the first element would be pointing to deallocated memory.** The borrowing rules prevent programs from ending up in that situation.


## Iterating over the Values in a Vector


If we want to access each element in a vector in turn, we can iterate through all of the elements rather than use indices to access one at a time. Below Listing  shows how to use a `for` loop to get immutable references to each element in a vector of `i32` values and print them.

```sh
fn main() {
    let v = vec![100, 32, 57];
    for i in &v {
        println!("{}", i);
    }
}
```

For `mut` references :

```sh
fn main() {
    let mut v = vec![100, 32, 57];
    for i in &mut v {
        *i += 50;
    }
}
``` 

- To change the value that the mutable reference refers to, we have to use the dereference operator (`*`) to get to the value in `i` before we can use the `+=` operator.

## Using an Enum to Store Multiple Types

- At the beginning of this chapter, we said that vectors can only store values that are the same type. This can be inconvenient; there are definitely use cases for needing to store a list of items of different types. Fortunately, the variants of an enum are defined under the same enum type, so when we need to store elements of a different type in a vector, we can define and use an enum!

```sh
fn main() {
    enum SpreadsheetCell {
        Int(i32),
        Float(f64),
        Text(String),
    }

    let row = vec![
        SpreadsheetCell::Int(3),
        SpreadsheetCell::Text(String::from("blue")),
        SpreadsheetCell::Float(10.12),
    ];
}
```

- Rust needs to know what types will be in the vector at compile time so it knows exactly how much memory on the heap will be needed to store each element.

- If Rust allowed a vector to hold any type, there would be a chance that one or more of the types would cause errors with the operations performed on the elements of the vector

- When you’re writing a program, if you don’t know the exhaustive set of types the program will get at runtime to store in a vector, the enum technique won’t work. Instead, you can use a trait object, which we’ll cover in Chapter 17.