# Storing Keys with Associated Values in Hash Maps

- The last of our common collections is the hash map. The type `HashMap<K, V>` stores a mapping of keys of type `K` to values of type `V`.

## Creating a New Hash Map

- You can create an empty hash map with `new` and add elements with `insert`.

```sh
fn main() {
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let mut scores = HashMap::new();

    scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);
    scores.insert(String::from("Yellow"), 50);
}
```

- Of our three common collections, this one is the least often used, so it’s not included in the features brought into scope automatically in the prelude. Hash maps also have less support from the standard library; there’s no built-in macro to construct them, for example.

- Just like vectors, hash maps store their data on the heap. Like vectors, hash maps are homogeneous: all of the keys must have the same type, and all of the values must have the same type.

- Another way of constructing a hash map is by using iterators and the `collect` method on a vector of tuples, where each tuple consists of a key and its value.

- The `collect` method gathers data into a number of collection types, including `HashMap`. For example, if we had the team names and initial scores in two separate vectors, we could use the `zip` method to create a vector of tuples where “Blue” is paired with 10, and so forth. Then we could use the `collect` method to turn that vector of tuples into a `hash map` :

```sh
fn main() {
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let teams = vec![String::from("Blue"), String::from("Yellow")];
    let initial_scores = vec![10, 50];

    let mut scores: HashMap<_, _> =
        teams.into_iter().zip(initial_scores.into_iter()).collect();
}
```

- The type annotation `HashMap<_, _>` is needed here because it’s possible to `collect` into many different data structures and Rust doesn’t know which you want unless you specify. 

- For the parameters for the key and value types, however, we use underscores, and Rust can infer the types that the hash map contains based on the types of the data in the vectors.

## Hash Maps and Ownership

- For types that implement the `Copy` trait, like `i32`, the values are copied into the hash map. For owned values like `String`, the values will be moved and the hash map will be the owner of those values.


```sh
fn main() {
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let field_name = String::from("Favorite color");
    let field_value = String::from("Blue");

    let mut map = HashMap::new();
    map.insert(field_name, field_value);
    // field_name and field_value are invalid at this point, try using them and
    // see what compiler error you get!
}
```

- If we insert references to values into the hash map, the values won’t be moved into the hash map. 

## Accessing Values in a Hash Map

- We can get a value out of the hash map by providing its key to the get method.

```sh
fn main() {
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let mut scores = HashMap::new();

    scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);
    scores.insert(String::from("Yellow"), 50);

    let team_name = String::from("Blue");
    let score = scores.get(&team_name);
}
```
- Here, `score` will have the value that’s associated with the Blue team, and the result will be `Some(&10)`. The result is wrapped in `Some` because `get` returns an `Option<&V>`; if there’s no value for that key in the hash map, `get` will return `None`.

- We can iterate over each key/value pair in a hash map in a similar manner as we do with vectors, using a `for` loop:

```sh
fn main() {
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let mut scores = HashMap::new();

    scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);
    scores.insert(String::from("Yellow"), 50);

    for (key, value) in &scores {
        println!("{}: {}", key, value);
    }
}
```

## Updating a Hash Map

- When you want to change the data in a hash map, you have to decide how to handle the case when a key already has a value assigned.

1.  Overwriting a Value

    * If we insert a key and a value into a hash map and then insert that same key with a different value, the value associated with that key will be replaced. 

    * ```sh
        fn main() {
        use std::collections::HashMap;

        let mut scores = HashMap::new();

        scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);
        scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 25);

        println!("{:?}", scores);
        }
        ```
2. Only Inserting a Value If the Key Has No Value

    * It’s common to check whether a particular key has a value and, if it doesn’t, insert a value for it.

    * Hash maps have a special API for this called `entry` that takes the key you want to check as a parameter. The return value of the `entry` method is an enum called `Entry` that represents a value that might or might not exist. 

    * ```sh
        fn main() {
            use std::collections::HashMap;

            let mut scores = HashMap::new();
            scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);

            scores.entry(String::from("Yellow")).or_insert(50);
            scores.entry(String::from("Blue")).or_insert(50);

            println!("{:?}", scores);
        }
        ```

    * The `or_insert` method on `Entry` is defined to return a mutable reference to the value for the corresponding `Entry` key if that key exists, and if not, inserts the parameter as the new value for this key and returns a mutable reference to the new value. 

3. Updating a Value Based on the Old Value

    * Another common use case for hash maps is to look up a key’s value and then update it based on the old value.

    * We use a hash map with the words as keys and increment the value to keep track of how many times we’ve seen that word. If it’s the first time we’ve seen a word, we’ll first insert the value 0.

    * ```sh
        fn main() {
        use std::collections::HashMap;

        let text = "hello world wonderful world";

        let mut map = HashMap::new();

        for word in text.split_whitespace() {
            let count = map.entry(word).or_insert(0);
            *count += 1;
        }

        println!("{:?}", map);
        }
        ```

    * This code will print `{"world": 2, "hello": 1, "wonderful": 1}`. The `or_insert` method actually returns a mutable reference `(&mut V)` to the value for this key.

    * Here we store that mutable reference in the `count` variable, so in order to assign to that value, we must first dereference count using the asterisk (`*`). The mutable reference goes out of scope at the end of the `for` loop, so all of these changes are safe and allowed by the borrowing rules.

## Hashing Functions

- By default, `HashMap` uses a “cryptographically strong”<sup>1</sup> hashing function that can provide resistance to Denial of Service (DoS) attacks. This is not the fastest hashing algorithm available, but the trade-off for better security that comes with the drop in performance is worth it. If you profile your code and find that the default hash function is too slow for your purposes, you can switch to another function by specifying a different hasher. A hasher is a type that implements the `BuildHasher` trait.

1 https://www.131002.net/siphash/siphash.pdf